BigAnimal - in-app notifications (#5411)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/biganimal/release/administering_cluster/notifications.mdx

---
title: Notifications 
---

BigAnimal supports receiving in-app and email notifications and allows you to choose receive notifications of a selected type. 

Different types of events are sent as notifications. These notifications are set at different levels and users with different roles can configure this notifications. This table provides the list of events sent as notifications grouped by different levels at which they can be set:

| Level        | Event                                                                                            | Role                             |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Organization | Payment method added                                                                             | Organization owner/admin         |

> | Organization | Personal access key is expiring                                                                  | Organization owner               |

Author: ```suggestion
| Organization | Personal access key is expiring                                                                  | Access key owner               |
```

---
title: Notifications 
---

> BigAnimal supports receiving in-app and email notifications and allows you to choose receive notifications of a selected type. 

Reviewer: not sure we can have two verbs in sequence `choose receive`.... but maybe I am wrong

Author: How about this "With BigAnimal, you can opt to get specific types of notifications and receive both in-app and email notifications."

> Different types of events are sent as notifications. These notifications are set at different levels and users with different roles can configure this notifications. This table provides the list of events sent as notifications grouped by different levels at which they can be set:

Reviewer: `These notifications are set at different levels` what do we mean here ?

Author: Different levels means Organization level and Project level

Reviewer: could you clarify this in the text ? :pray:

| Level        | Event                                                                                            | Role                             |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|

> | Organization | Payment method added                                                                             | Organization owner/admin         |

Reviewer 2: This is only for DSS pay-go users only.

Author: What should we write here then?

> | Organization | Personal access key is expiring                                                                  | Organization owner               |

Reviewer 2: this notifies the personal access key's owner. Not org-owner.

| Project      | Successful maintenance upgrade on a cluster                                                      | Project owner/editor             |
| Project      | Failed maintenance upgrade on a cluster                                                          | Project owner/editor             |
| Project      | Paused cluster will automatically reactivated in 24 hours                                        | Project owner/editor             |
| Project      | Paused cluster was automatically reactivated                                                     | Project owner/editor             |
| Project      | You must set up the encryption key permission for your CMK-enabled cluster                       | Project owner/editor             |
| Project      | Key error with CMK-enabled cluster                                                               | Project owner and project editor |
| Project      | User is invited to a project (displays only to the Project owner)                                | Project owner                    |

> | Project      | New role is assigned to you                                                                      | Project user                     |

Reviewer 2: `Project user` is ambiguous --> this event and L23's "Role is unassigned from you" event notify the user whose role assignment is changed, instead of "all project users".

Author: What can we mention here? Individual user?

Reviewer 3: @nidhibhammar we group these notifications at `Account` level

![Screenshot 2024-04-05 at 4 39 08 PM](https://github.com/EnterpriseDB/docs/assets/23738352/876c608c-c758-41a6-b071-719a0e81335c)

| Project      | Role is unassigned from you                                                                      | Project user                     |
| Project      | Failed connection to third-party monitoring integration (and future non-monitoring integrations) | Project owner/editor             |

## Configuring notifications

> The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the UI or email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the in-app inbox or email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 
```

> The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the UI or email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the UI, email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 
```

> The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the UI or email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams with in their organization. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the UI or email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 
```

> Organization/Project owners can add one or more team email addresses to their organizations/projects. They can enable/disable different notification types to be sent to the team email address(es) they provide.

Reviewer 2: this statement is also ambiguous. The configuration doesn't provide this functionality.

Author: Ok, removed

> Organization/Project owners can add one or more team email addresses to their organizations/projects. They can enable/disable different notification types to be sent to the team email address(es) they provide.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Project level notifications are to be configured for a project.

> Notification settings made by a user is applicable only to that user. If an email notification is enabled, the email is send to the email address associated with their login. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Notification settings made by a user are applicable only to that user. If an email notification is enabled, emails will be sent to the email address associated with their login. 
```

Author: As per the docs style guide, we don't use future tense.

Reviewer 4: Ok, got it. thanks

Notifications related to unused features for an organization or a project aren't visible or configurable in the UI. 

## Viewing notifications

Users in the following roles can view the notifications:
- Organization owners/admins can view the organization-level notifications. 

> - Project owners/editors can view the project-level notifications. 

Reviewer 3: This is not true for notifications such as `New role is assigned to you`, `Role is unassigned from you` or `Personal access key is expiring`, these are more of user level notifications irrespective their roles 

I think thats the reason @xugy99 triggered this discussion https://edb-starlight.slack.com/archives/C06CVGR33U1/p1711620339337559

Reviewer 3: ![Screenshot 2024-04-05 at 4 39 08 PM](https://github.com/EnterpriseDB/docs/assets/23738352/ac440a6a-40bc-43eb-b2cf-ce50b4f663af)

There is new `Account` level too

| Project      | New role is assigned to you                                                                      | Account owner                    | All                  |
| Project      | Role is unassigned from you                                                                      | Account owner                    | All                  |
| Project      | Failed connection to third-party monitoring integration (and future non-monitoring integrations) | Project owner/editor             | All                  |

!!!note
All subscription type means Digital self-service, Direct purchase, and Azure Marketplace. For more information, see [subscription types](/biganimal/latest/pricing_and_billing/#payments-and-billing).
!!!

## Configuring notifications

The project owners/editors and organization owners/admins can configure the notifications for the events visible to them. They can choose if they want to receive notifications in the in-app inbox, email or both. They can also configure email notifications for their teams within their organization. 

> Project level notifications are to be configured for a project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Project level notifications are configured within the project.
```

> Notification settings made by a user is applicable only to that user. If an email notification is enabled, the email is sent to the email address associated with their login. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Notification settings made by a user are applicable only to that user. If an email notification is enabled, the email is sent to the email address associated with the user's login. 
```

## Viewing notifications

Users in the following roles can view the notifications:
- Organization owners/admins can view the organization-level notifications. 
- Project owners/editors can view the project-level notifications.

> - Account owner can view the account-level notifications. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Account owners can view their own account-level notifications. 
```
